Bring all that together,
we've got our thing back here,
we've got our struct stat metadata.
We're calling fstat and
the file descriptor, metadata address.
We asked,
what if I wanna read all the bytes?
This is the answer to that question.
So now that I've got
my metadata populated,
instead of saying char buffer bracket 100,
I can say char buffer metadata.st_size.
And this will basically say,
now my buffer is,
instead of being hard-coded at 100,
it's going to reserve, again,
in the functions memory,
however many bytes that file size is.
But unfortunately, this can very easily
lead to a segmentation fault if we
don't [LAUGH] double up on that, right?
So the segmentation fault actually
can happen even without considering
the 100 here.
So what can happen here,
is essentially that,
if we have too many bytes for the stack,
that will result in a segfault,
actually because of the guard page
thing we were talking about earlier.
So by default, in most operating
systems and most programming languages,
the stack has a fixed hard-coded size.
You can configure it, but it's like,
the program starts running,
you get this much stack space,
and that's all you get.
I'm not gonna go into why that is,
it's actually a good design decision for
a number of reasons.
But it does mean that, if you run out
of stack space, then you get an error,
in this case a segmentation fault.
Because we are saying,
however many bytes the file is,
I want you to reserve that many
bytes on the stack with this buffer.
If we reserve more bytes than is
available in the stack, let's say,
we have some file that's like
10 gigabytes or something, and
that's just the stack is just not
that big [LAUGH] in the program.
Yeah, you get an error right there, right,
when you're trying to do this right away.
So essentially, if you look at
your program's entire memory,
like all the ones and zeros that
are reserved for your program's memory,
the first section of ones and zeros is
gonna be the actual executable data
itself, plus some constants
like the strings and stuff.
Then after that,
there's some global mutable variables,
there's some space reserved for those.
Then you have the stack, and then after
that, you have all this other stuff,
which is basically the heap.
So the heap is by far
the biggest part of memory.
This is what malloc essentially uses.
And if you wanted to, you could
solve this problem by saying, okay,
I wanna call malloc of that metadata
size and get back the buffer.
And malloc will return you
an address of this, and
then you will solve that problem.
But then, of course, now you need to
remember to free the buffer later on.
So putting these two things together,
if I wanted to,
I could say, I'm not gonna worry
about stack size of this thing,
I'm just gonna malloc of
that exact many bytes.
I have plenty of space on the heap for
that,
I don't need to worry about
overflowing the heap.
Then I get the length by calling, sorry,
then I call read of metadata.st_size, read
that many bytes into this buffer, just
like we did before, except instead of 100,
now it's just however many
bytes are actually in the file.
Do my length check and
then print that I read this many bytes.
And then, I need to remember,
just like I remember the file descriptor,
not only did I close the file descriptor,
but also I need to free the buffer.
And these can happen in either order,
it doesn't really matter if I free
the buffer memory or
if I close the file descriptor first.
It doesn't matter,
it's just I need to remember to do
the sort of bookkeeping myself manually.
Now, worth noting [LAUGH] that
another thing that can happen is,
remember I mentioned earlier that read
says, tell me the most bytes to read, and
then it returns how many
bytes I actually read.
Now, I think that can also happen is,
yeah, it can potentially say, look,
if you give me a number that's too big,
I'm just not gonna do that for
you, I'm not gonna read that many bytes.
So I actually experimented with this and
found that if I asked, say, hey,
read five gigabytes out of this
file in a single read call.
Nock was like, nah, nah, nah,
that's too many gigabytes,
dial it down a little bit,
that's that's too much.
So the fix for
this is that you read in multiple chunks.
So instead of saying, I'm just gonna
pass in, just read the entire thing.
What you do is, you pick a chunk
size that's smaller than that,
and you essentially read one chunk
at a time into your buffer, and
then you can sort of
deal with that in chunks.
And this is sort of the best practice if
you're working with this in a production
setting.
Now, a lot of programming
languages will paper over this.
Of course, they're all calling
read under the hood, and
sometimes they'll offer you
a read chunks function.
Or sometimes, they'll just be like,
yeah, I'll just do the chunks thing
automatically for you kind of behind
the scenes, and just build up a really big
buffer usually using a malloc hook
equivalent on the heap, just for you.
But, there's an important
implication here, so
let's keep this in mind as
we're progressing here.
If for just plain old reading
purposes we want to read in chunks,
what does that imply for
our allocation strategy?
Well, hey, if we're reading in chunks,
stack is perfectly fine at that.
Why do we need to go do this
heap allocation if we're like,
I need to pick a fixed size
chunk to read in anyway?
Why don't we just go back to this original
design with just hard coding the size of
the buffer since I need to read only one
hard coded chunk size at a time anyway?
Why not, indeed?
And this is also a very common
pattern that you will see,
is when people are doing what's
called a buffered read, where they
need to essentially read in chunks, say,
read one subset of the file at a time.
Which is kind of the best practice anyway,
in case you have a really big file.
It's actually quite common to say, hey,
I'm just gonna allocate on the stack
exactly the memory that I need, because
I don't need to read the entire thing
at a time, I just need to know how big the
file is so I know kind of when to stop.
Even better,
this is gonna have better performance.
And also, now there's no need to remember
to call free later because we're only
dealing with stack memory.
We do need to grant to deal with
the complexity of reading in chunks, but
it turns out, we need to do that, anyway,
if we wanna support actually
reading very large files.
Okay, so, to summarize all
the things we talked about.
We started out with opening a file and
then remembering to close it later,
very important.
Getting its size by using the Fstat,
and then we talked about structs and
how those get populated, and
all the API considerations around that.
Talked about reading the contents
of the file into an actual buffer,
and how we can't do
reads that are too big.
So, although it might make sense
theoretically, to do a malloc so
we can just skip the exact size, and
not worry about overflowing the stack.
Actually, in practice, we end up probably
wanting to do a chunked read, anyway,
because the operating system
will otherwise give us an error.
And then, finally, we talked about stack
vs heap, and sort of the trade offs there.
Stack, you don't have to worry
about managing lifetimes,
remember when you call free.
But the heap is much, much bigger, and
although there's some ergonomic benefits,
there are some performance downsides.
Number one, malloc and free are definitely
considerably slower than using the stack.
And also there are some
correctness downsides,
where if you call free at the wrong time,
it's not just that you might get a memory
leak if you forget to do it, but
also if you call it too soon, you get
a use after free, which is really bad.
And if you call it more than once, you get
a double free, which can be even worse.
Questions about any of that
before we do the exercise, yeah?
>> Student: What's the reason for
the stack being faster than the heap?
>> Richard Feldman: So the reason for
the stack being faster than heap is,
essentially, oops, that, so all of these
are essentially just ones and zeros.
So from that perspective,
there's no difference.
If you're doing a read from the stack or
a read from the heap, it doesn't matter.
If you're doing a write to the stack or
write to the heap, it doesn't matter.
The performance difference is actually
just in the malloc and free itself.
So you can actually look at, there's
different implementations of malloc, but
basically, what malloc has to do is it
has to basically find in all of this
gigantic chunk of heap memory,
what's an address that's available, and
can I give that back to you?
And in order to answer that question,
it has to do a whole bunch
of manual bookkeeping.
It could have hash maps or something like
that to be like, okay, well, hang on,
I've used this range and this range.
So this range over here, wait,
that one's open, I might call free.
I have to be like, okay,
go mark that as free.
And then next time,
I'm going to try to find you a chunk.
And then you have things where it's like,
there's performance benefits if you
can get them to be sort of contiguous so
it has even more bookkeeping to try to put
things in different buckets and
stuff like that.
Basically, if you were to look at what
the CPU is doing when you call malloc,
it's just astronomically more than what
it's doing when you're just putting
something on the stack.
So it's just more work, because malloc
has an implementation that does
a bunch of work and free even more, so.
Cool, yeah.
So is stat a special type of struct?
Great question.
So stat, no,
stat is not a special type of struct.
This is just the definition that
whoever wrote stat they just
decided to name it that.
You could pick any name you want here,
you can define your own structs also.
So basically, if you wanted to define
your own struct, you would say struct,
then the name that you want,
and they chose the name stat.
They could have chosen foo or
apples or whatever.
And then you write all of the fields and
choose the names for them.
Cool, other questions?
>> Richard Feldman: Yeah.
>> Student: What do you
think about memory arenas?
>> Richard Feldman: Yeah, great.
Memory arenas are basically
an alternative to malloc and free,
where you essentially,
how do I explain this concisely?
So I guess it would be like,
if inside of two path we passed a third
argument that was basically
the memory address to,
it's almost like you're making a little
custom stack of your own [LAUGH] that
can kind of like, you can just
kind of allocate some memory into.
But unlike malloc and free, with arenas,
you never have to free them because you
never have to free the individual
allocations that you make into them.
Because they basically say, okay, let me
reserve a big chunk of memory here, and
very time I want an allocation,
I put it into that.
And then once I'm all done
with the entire arena,
I just am like, this arena is gone now,
so just throw all that away.
And then nothing inside of it,
well, hopefully will leak.
Arenas are kind of a deep topic, but
they're pretty great for performance and
also usually a lot easier to deal with in
terms of lifetimes [LAUGH] than malloc and
free.